22.0.0.6 GA Blog (#2305)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2022-06-07-microprofile-graphql-2.adoc

In link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 22.0.0.6:

* <<graphql, MicroProfile GraphQL 2.0>>
* <<cve, Security Vulnerability (CVE) Fixes>>
* <<bugs, Notable bug fixes>>

View the list of fixed bugs in link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A22006+label%3A%22release+bug%22[22.0.0.6].

[#run]
== Run your apps using 22.0.0.6

If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.openliberty</groupId>
    <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
    <version>22.0.0.6</version>
    <type>zip</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[22.0.0.6,)'
}
----

Or if you're using Docker:

[source]
----
FROM open-liberty
----

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/downloads/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

[#graphql]
=== MicroProfile GraphQL 2.0

> MicroProfile GraphQL 2.0 incorporates Jakarta EE 9.1 dependencies.  This allows developers to continue using the same functionality provided by MP GraphQL 1.0 but with the updated Jakarta features such as link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-3.0.html[CDI 3.0], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.0.html[restfulWS 3.0], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jsonb-2.0.html[JSON-B 2.0], etc. Functionally, version 2.0 behaves the same as 1.0 because it uses the same version of the underlying implementation (link:https://github.com/smallrye/smallrye-graphql[SmallRye GraphQL]).  If you'd like to learn more about MicroProfile GraphQL, see our previous link:{url-prefix}/blog/2020/06/10/microprofile-graphql-open-liberty.html[blog post about MicroProfile GraphQL 1.0] and our link:{url-prefix}/blog/2020/08/28/graphql-apis-open-liberty-20009.html[blog post on how to use the GraphiQL UI and third-party Client APIs].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MicroProfile GraphQL 2.0 incorporates Jakarta EE 9.1 dependencies.  This allows developers to continue using the same functionality provided by MP GraphQL 1.0 but with the updated Jakarta features such as link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-3.0.html[CDI 3.0], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.0.html[restfulWS 3.0], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jsonb-2.0.html[JSON-B 2.0], etc. Functionally, version 2.0 behaves the same as 1.0 because it uses the same version of the underlying implementation (link:https://github.com/smallrye/smallrye-graphql[SmallRye GraphQL]).  If you'd like to learn more about MicroProfile GraphQL, check out our link:{url-prefix}/guides/microprofile-graphql.htm[Optimizing REST queries for microservices with GraphQL] guide or see our previous link:{url-prefix}/blog/2020/06/10/microprofile-graphql-open-liberty.html[blog post about MicroProfile GraphQL 1.0] and our link:{url-prefix}/blog/2020/08/28/graphql-apis-open-liberty-20009.html[blog post on how to use the GraphiQL UI and third-party Client APIs].
```

> MicroProfile GraphQL 2.0 incorporates Jakarta EE 9.1 dependencies.  This allows developers to continue using the same functionality provided by MP GraphQL 1.0 but with the updated Jakarta features such as link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-3.0.html[CDI 3.0], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.0.html[restfulWS 3.0], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jsonb-2.0.html[JSON-B 2.0], etc. Functionally, version 2.0 behaves the same as 1.0 because it uses the same version of the underlying implementation (link:https://github.com/smallrye/smallrye-graphql[SmallRye GraphQL]).  If you'd like to learn more about MicroProfile GraphQL, check out our link:{url-prefix}/guides/microprofile-graphql.htm[Optimizing REST queries for microservices with GraphQL] guide or see our previous link:{url-prefix}/blog/2020/06/10/microprofile-graphql-open-liberty.html[blog post about MicroProfile GraphQL 1.0] and our link:{url-prefix}/blog/2020/08/28/graphql-apis-open-liberty-20009.html[blog post on how to use the GraphiQL UI and third-party Client APIs].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MicroProfile GraphQL 2.0 incorporates Jakarta EE 9.1 dependencies.  This allows developers to continue using the same functionality provided by MP GraphQL 1.0 but with the updated Jakarta features such as link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-3.0.html[CDI 3.0], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.0.html[restfulWS 3.0], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jsonb-2.0.html[JSON-B 2.0], etc. Functionally, version 2.0 behaves the same as 1.0 because it uses the same version of the underlying implementation (link:https://github.com/smallrye/smallrye-graphql[SmallRye GraphQL]).  If you'd like to learn more about MicroProfile GraphQL, check out our link:{url-prefix}/guides/microprofile-graphql.htm[Optimizing REST queries for microservices with GraphQL] guide or see our link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/microprofile-graphql.html[Build GraphQL applications with MicroProfile GraphQL] doc and our link:{url-prefix}/blog/2020/08/28/graphql-apis-open-liberty-20009.html[blog post on how to use the GraphiQL UI and third-party Client APIs].
```

Reviewer 2: recommend linking to the new GraphQL doc instead of the 1.0 blog post, the doc has the same info as the blog post + more

To enable the MicroProfile GraphQL 2.0 feature, add it to your `server.xml`:

[source, xml]
----
<featureManager>
  <feature>mpGraphQL-2.0</feature>
</featureManager>
----

> [#CVEs]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[#cve]
```

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21050[Liberty OIDC error is being returned with incorrect characters]
+
Previously, Liberty's `OIDC` error was returned with incorrect characters. When invoking the OP's `/authorize` endpoint with missing or incorrect parameters in traditional Chinese, the returned error message had a number of `????` instead of Chinese characters. The same happened for other non-ascii languages.
+
The error page showed:
+
[source]
----
"Accept-Language: zh-TW"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
X-Powered-By: Servlet/3.0
Content-Language: en-DE
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Date: Fri, 06 May 2022 08:42:36 GMT

CWOAU0033E: ????????????client_id
----
+
This issue has now been fixed and the page should contain the properly translated error message instead of `????????????`.

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21079[Refresh token is not cleaned up when a JWT access_token had been issued]
+

> `OIDC` `end_session`'s `refresh_token` cleanup is different depending on the type of access_token issued.

Reviewer 2: The formatting here is not working properly - I dont think OIDC needs to be in monospace anyway

```suggestion
The `refresh_token` cleanup for an OIDC `end_session` instance  is different depending on the type of access_token issued.
```
